# Worlds

## Planet Classes

Planet classes classify different kinds of planets.

* ZONE: is a list of the zones a planet may occur in. A solar system has 3
  zones:
    * hot (closest to the star),
    * ecosphere
    * cold (beyond the ice line, that is where free floating water turns to ice)
* ABUNDANCE: 1-7, higher is richer in chance of finding rare resources
* SIZE: minimum and maximum relative diameters (1-50) for the class of planet
* HUE: a typical average color
* SURFACE: a list of the possible properties of a planets surface
* ATMOSPHERE: a list of the possible properties of a planets atmosphere

## Leaders

Leaders an element to the mostly strategic game that cannot be enforced. Which
leader turns or ends up where is good or bad "luck". Still the player can do
something about it by focusing its effort on generating leadership points (LP).

List of ideas:

- each race has an account for leadership points (LP)
- a higher amount attracts more leaders
- hiring a leader subtracts the points (costs of a leader)
- dismissing a leader to early reduces the LP (the amount lost reduces over
  time; in general this gives the effect that a high turn over of staff is
  negative)
- LPs are generated by components
- LPs could also be a benefit of a leader
- leader might want to leave if LPs **increase** is too low (a way to get AIs
  leaders)
- not letting a leader leave also reduces the LPs
- other actions like colonising planets, winning battles or generate LPs
- each player has a "available leaders" view having up to X (about 5) leaders,
  rate they appear and leave depends on LPs
- player gets info when new leader has been attracted

### Ransom Leaders

An attracted leader that is employed by another player can be ransomed by paying
LPs. An offer is made. The player might accept the offer, then the points are
transferred. If the offer outgrows the LPs of the employing player the offer
must be accepted. This allows very strong LP players to weaken their competitors
without war.
